Shurima was once a glorious empire, its capital a prosperous city basking in radiant light and power. But it fell to ruin when its last emperor was betrayed by his closest friend.
Rumors spread of a golden warrior ascended from the sands, blazing a path through the desert. And upon the path he treads, cities and armies arise.
The inhabitants of Shurima can feel it, the return of their lost emperor. Every last human, animal, and creature of the sand bows in anticipation of the arrival of their ruler.
The wind carries a message, a message that all must heed. All hail! Azir, your emperor has returned.
In his first life, Azir was the youngest son of his family, never considered fit to become the emperor of shurima.
Azir met Xerath, a slave boy during his studies. Azir took a liking to Xerath and cared for him like a brother.
Some believe that Azir was the culprit behind the death of his father and brothers. Or perhaps, it was by some other unseen hand that Azir became emperor.
Shurima is an empire built upon the backs of slavery. But Azir had a secret goal that none knew of. He planned to grant all of the slaves in Shurima the greatest gift of all, freedom.
Xerath convinced Azir that he needed to become Ascended to bring Shurima to its fullest potential. On the day of the ritual, Azir was betrayed by his closest friend Xerath, and tragedy befell Shurima.
Azir lost his life to the sun disc's fire. Thousands of years passed. But one fateful day, the blood of his descendant fell upon his burial grounds and Azir arose from the sand. His descendant was known as...Sivir.
Aatrox is one of Shurima's Ascended.
To keep the wise and powerful Nasus and Renekton away from his scheme, Xerath summoned Brand to wreck havoc on the land.
Ezreal got his gauntlet from a Shuriman tomb.
Kaisa was a normal girl born in the southern regions of Shurima. After being claimed by the void, she became...Kai'Sa.
Malzahar was a Shuriman seer that turned to the dark. He became known as the leader of the "Cult of the Void".
Rhaast is one of Shurima's Ascended.
Varus was one of Shurima's Ascended.
Setaka was the first Ascended being of Shurima. She was known as the Warrior Queen and wielded Chalicar--a blade now held by none other than Sivir.
Taliyah hails from a tribe of cloth weavers, little did they know that she was to become a weaver of stone.
Yasuo is Taliyah's mentor. They share a quote, "I will follow this path until the end".
Yasuo calls Taliyah, "Little Sparrow".
Taliyah's favorite ice cream is...rocky road.
Taliyah's favorite animals are goats. Who doesn't like goats?
In game, Azir can dance like Michael Jackson. He even has backup dancers in the form of his soldiers.
During development, Azir was referred to as his codename...Seth.
Azir is just over 3000 years old.
"What is a Baron to an EMPEROR? Shuriman sands flow ever in our favour."
Azir does not particularly like Ezreal-- or any tomb thieves. The one exception is Sivir, for she is family after all.
Nasus and Renekton were Azir's mentors when he was growing up.
Azir is no anti-furry, he is welcoming towards any Yordles who direct their efforts towards the rebuilding of Shurima.
Amumu is at least 6000 years old. He is ANCIENT!
Nasus directly translates to Nose in Latin, references his long snout.
Nasus is roughly 3800 years old, he fought alongside Setaka for centuries.
Nasus is Renekton's elder brother, they became Ascended at the same time.
Renekton is roughly 3800 years old, he fought alongside Setaka for centuries.
After Xerath's betrayal, Renekton battled Xerath into the depths of the Tomb of the Emperors, where Nasus attempted to seal them for all eternity.
Renekton's sanity was destroyed during his centuries long battle with Xerath, and now he seeks the destruction of his own brother, Nasus.
Rammus: ok.
Rammus is at least 6000 years old.
Some believe that Rammus is an Ascended being, an ancient god amonst men who rolls to Shurima's aid as an armored guardian in its times of need.
A prince to a vast kingdom was once saved by Rammus, this prince was soon inspired to renounced his royalty and he became a goat farmer.
Rammus once stopped a Noxian attack on the Temple of the Ascended by driving by and dropping enormous stone blocks into the Noxian army. Some say he merely did it to protect his favorite cactus flowers.
Skarner is the most powerful of the Brackern. His stone chose him for his strength, persistence, and courage.
The Brackern are all but immortal. The powerful crystals imbued within them grant them life for thousands of years.
Rengar hails from a tribe of Shuriman vastaya known as the Kiilash, those who venerate the glory of the hunt.
Rengar is the son of his tribe's chieftain, but he was abandoned for his small stature.
Abandoned by his tribe, Rengar became strong in the tough wilderness of Shurima. Eventually, he returned, killed his father, and turned his back on the tribe for good.
Rengar lost one of his eyes in a rash battle with the Void monster, Kha'Zix.
Shuriman priests conducted the Ascension ritual to save an ill struck Nasus, however he was too frail to step into the golden light. His brother, Renekton carried him into the light and both of them emerged Ascended.
Yuumi left her home to search for her master, Norra. The last evidence that Yuumi uncovered was Norra's scent in a Shuriman ruin. What could have Norra been doing there...?
Zilean has long been an enemy of Shurima, before the fall of Icathia.
Setaka led the Ascended host of Shurima to centuries of conquest across the world.
The power of the Sun Disc lured the greed of many across the world, Nasus and Renekton decided to use their Ascended powers to protect it.
After centuries of Shuriman domination, Icathia rebelled. 12 Ascended Shurimans nearly squashed the rebellion, until the Icathians released an evil weapon they had found underground--and thus, the Void was summoned.
When the Icathians desperately summoned the Void, Setaka the Shuriman Warrior Queen and 11 other Ascended were killed in battle. The battle was epic, and the entire region of Icathia was left as a barren wasteland.
With the death of Setaka, the Shuriman Ascendeds fought to seal the Void rifts. In the Void War, Shurima was victorious over the Void. But a gate once opened can be opened again and the nightmares did not stop.
The Darkin are corrupted Ascended. Some believe that their corruption was due to the horrific events of the Void War and the death of their emperor, Azir.
Myisha, or, Zoe, let a coup against the Darkin that resulted in the death of many Ascended and Darkins. But she accomplished her goal; to grant the Chalicar to Sivunas Alahair, Sivir.
After the revival of Azir, Xerath tried to kill Sivir. However, Nasus and Taliyah worked together to save the city and stopped him.
Nasus is well acquainted with the world traveler, Ryze. They shared a love for knowledge.
The Marrowmark Market is a settlement built in the ribcage of an ancient desert behemoth. It is said that anything under the sun can be found in Marrowmark...for the right price.
Shurimans would toss beloved and valuable objects into the shifting sands as gifts to the Ascended. This was a common tradition of the desert.
Nerimazeth was the capital of Shurima before the rise of Azir.
The Tomb of Ne'Zuk was the Shuriman burial ground where Ezreal found his gauntlet.
Shurima has close ties to Mount Targon. The blueprints for the Sun Disc and the secrets of Ascension came from the Targonians.
There are tales on the whispering sands that tell of Amumu as the first Shuriman Emperor. The first...and last Yordle emperor.
Noxus and Shurima share borders, but have never had too much interest in each other. But with the rise of Azir from the sands, new political relations are sure to take shape.
Jan'ahrem is an ancient wind spirit of Shurima. Some know her better as Janna.
With the fall of Shurima, Janna lessened her protection over Shurima as a whole and began to focus on the misfortunes of Zaun.
Bard recorded the fall of Shurima in a constellation, permanently etched in the night sky.
Somewhere in the hottest place in all of Valoran, the Shuriman Desert, lies the purest pool of water known to this world. Any blade dipped in this pool becomes an Infinity Edge.
The Tears of the Goddess whom created this world was found in a Shuriman Tomb by none other than Ezreal.
Those who underwent the Ascension ritual but failed were known as Baccai. They would be killed as a kindness to end their suffering.
Varus encountered a Baccai in his travels through Shurima. It had a withered arm almost like the branches of an old tree and various birdlike features.
Xerath seeks to hunt down Sivir because she is related by blood to Azir.
Pantheon once let a host of Ra'Horak warriors against Xerath. He did battle and fought Xerath evenly, until the ground beneath him deteriorated to sand and he fell.
Once, Xerath almost slew Pantheon. But a brave warrior, emboldened by Pantheon's courage to stand against a monster such as Xerath, stood against the fatal attack and saved Pantheon's life. Her name was Asose.
A boy, Ojan, and his family was once attacked by a horde of Kmiros (giant beetles). Their caravan was overran, but Rammus of the desert rolled in and smashed every single beetle. The family thanked the Shuriman creature. Rammus poked through the dead beetles for a moment, and he left with only one word, "Hmm". What was he searching for?
Upon Azir's revival, he walked the Emperor's Way to learn the story of his ruin. He saw his ascension from the view of his people. He saw his closest allies, generals, and Ascended warriors. He saw his family, his wife, his son. And he saw Xerath, who took it all away from him. After a pause, he lifted a single hand, and a host of sand warriors rose to meet him. A silent wrath filled Azir. "Xerath, your crimes will not go unpunished."
Sivir has led a tragic life. Her entire family was slain by Kthaons, raiders. She was forced to become a thief to survive. Her closest thief friend, Mhyra, betrays her. She learned to betray others as well, taking over her mercenary group and abandoning her mentor in the desert. She is eventually betrayed by Casseopeia during their plunder of a Shuriman Tomb. With such a twisted life, only the teachings of Azir can bright her salvation.
Taliyah loved traveling the world, but Shurima's blazing sun always made her feel the most content.
On the day of Nasus's Ascension, he felt too weak to climb the Stairs. So, his brother Renekton carried him up the stairs. For most, this would be suicidal, but a miracle occurred and both Nasus and Renekton became Ascended together.
Taliyah met Sivir by saving her life in the desert. Chased by Xerath, they established an interesting friendship between a cynical warrior and an eager explorer.
During Xerath's attack on Sivir, he almost kills Nasus. But he allows Nasus to live because he wishes to see the now maddened Renekton destroy his own brother.
Taliyah's magnificent earth weaving protects the majority of the people of Vekaura from Xerath's wrath. But the city was utterly destroyed.
After Xerath buries Nasus under the rubble of Vekaura, Nasus feels strangely at peace. He knows that Renekton is coming for his head, but in his heart he believes that the noble warrior Renekton still lives underneath the madness, and that together, they will defeat Xerath.
